the dart falls out but it's already
delivered its payload of tranquilizer
thankfully little pink fruits family is
at hand but this could still go badly
wrong Sylvia or her family could charge
and force the team to withdraw Sylvia
could fall awkwardly a huge bulk could
restrict her ability to breathe she
could suffocate worse still she could
fall on little pink foot and crush her
but first things are looking good but
then Sylvia puts out a distress call
little pink foot responds she runs back
to Sylvia and stands right underneath
her three ton bulk
for her being right under mum is the
safest place in the world
[Applause]
David in the team tried to flush little
pink foot out with their vehicles but
she just won't budge eventually David
does the unthinkable he risks his own
life to save little paint for us
if Silvia goes down now she could easily
crush them both
[Applause]
but even little pinkfoot weighs a
hundred kilos
moving her takes for the rest of the
herd are wild with distress
they could charge at any moment
well I do i tender little pink foot
panics the team have got to get her back
to her sister side
[Music]
[Applause]
thankfully baby elephants instinctively
follow large objects so David uses his
vehicle to lead her towards her family
[Music]
once she's safe the team can start their
work the abscess is huge it's drained
and cleaned thoroughly the team work as
fast as they can to reduce the stress to
Silvia and the rest of the herd a vet
from the Kenyan Wildlife Service gives
her a massive dose of antibiotics
[Music]
thousands of elephants get shot every
year most die slowly and painfully
and finally the vet gives Silvia an
antidote to the tranquilizer to bring
her round
first the elephant's often race into
pools the matriarch knows that her
family must not rush any
this pool is stagnant and the elephants
have a trick that deals with that
sediment settles to the bottom and the
cleaner fresher water lies on the
surface they skim it carefully from the
top then as gently as elephants can they
move forward slowly trying not to
disturb the stagnant layers but precious
water like this draws in herds from far
and wide
in the exuberance of greeting all their
careful burger is undone
when Bulls are forced together by the
need for water tempers can flare
[Music]
Frank and the team a fitting Edison's
tracking collar so this is a new type of
collar that we're trying it's a little
bit easier to put on at the other ones
and instead of having a big lead weight
at the bottom that all the brains are
down in the weight as well it may look
big but for an elephant it's just like
wearing a watch the collars on now it's
time to wake Addison up so we just go
jump back in the car
that was after 60 minutes the antlers
just going so let's wait and see how
long it takes him to the antidote
counteracts the effects of the
tranquilizer all going to plan
Edison should be back on his feet within
a couple of minutes
but he's not
[Music]
this is what everything stops
and everything gets quiet and the second
hand seems to go around the watch a bit
slower and you wait for him to to get up
the first sign will be looking for us
this is yeah twitching
[Music]
normally just a couple of minutes is
made he's been down too long and they're
worried vet
Matthew Mouton de Menezes another shot
of antidote
[Music]
my heart really isn't on earth
you seen this before George yeah
and like this at all
[Music]
it's turn this time
oh thank god
that's a big relief
[Music]
he's paying a lot of attention to it
he's sniffing it thinking what how does
this thing
why am I wearing in vector suddenly
[Music]
I've only done about telling them that
every elephant that I have been involved
in covering needs you with a special
attachment to that elephants I follow on
the tracking system you know what
they're like and you feel that you feel
like an actor with a hand side you know
Steven hi there very long life it's like
some old friend failure I it's not I'll
always have a feeling for Edison
[Music]
if they become separated they can easily
drown
[Music]
oh my god what is gone
the mothers try in vain but they can't
contain all three as they save one
another washes away
Oh God still going and the baby's gone
soon all three are being swept
downstream fast through the crocodile
infested waters
but the currents even too much for the
mothers
to let their babies go
[Applause]
you can't see how they can possibly
survive
you can hear the poor female oh kappa no
no no like all the big femurs are
running okay one baby's out this year
the other one is here Wow
there are two babies actually here wow
they're really tough
come on big females come in please don't
move
oh they're coming down
I hope they were symptom because they
will get tired and if a crop grabs them
resurrection the poor mothers just don't
know what to do they have no way of
lifting them out and David can't even
help
[Music]
oh come on females get in and save the
babies
[Music]
the riverbank is shir and the babies are
weak and terrified
[Music]
oh man that is so relieving
that's so joyful to see all of them
again coming back together
he needs to sedate the elephant so that
the snare can be safely removed guys we
are ready we go have the elephant this
is good I'm happy now the vets here Fred
works alongside a spotter plane to
locate the injured boo
[Music]
he wants to dart it quickly to stop him
suffering
[Music]
okay so uh the French managed to buy the
dark and elephants taken off through the
feast we're just going to try and look
into
[Music]
choppers on the ground it's really
shocking
I mean to myself black
on his side
the Bulls breathing is labored we have
to move fast to remove the snare the
poachers have simply used winch cable
from a truck
[Music]
a snare like this is cheap to make it
could have called any of Weaver's found
that wonderful robber to me our Father
for profit the reason that this animal
has endured his unimaginable pain is for
this his tusks defies belief how cruel
people can be to deny how senseless this
whole thing is because so much suffering
but for an ornament simply for an
ornament
he's treated with a special clay they'll
help heal the wound what do you think
Fred think he's you think he'll survive
ah you can see the guy's body condition
is good he was walking and also to
getting to another bad level but he's
still ok to survive you see the bone is
not involved something I believe in
targets ok so when the bone is in touch
the soft tissue can easily really repair
recover and finally the wound is treated
with an antibiotic spray all that
remains is to wake him up
well my word new fella
okay back
[Music]